Skip to content
Services
Work
Events
About
Let's talk

Services
Work
Events
About
Stories
People
Careers
Follow us

LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
Helsedirektoratet
Holistic public services for severely ill children
Experimentation as a method to tackle a wicked problem
Parent holding child, pointing at the sun, surrounded by flowers. Illustration.
Alvorlig Sykt Barn – barn og unge med behov for sammensatte tjenester (Severely ill child – children and adolescents with a need for complex services) is one of seven life events defined in the national Norwegian digitalisation strategy, where the development of seamless services is prioritised. The Norwegian Directorate of Health is coordinating the development of holistic and seamless public services for children with complex needs and their families. We have helped them identify why challenges occur, the relation between them and explored new ways of working to find solutions.
INDUSTRY
Public services
SERVICES
Service Experiences
Ways of Working
Organisational Ecosystem
LINK
Visit website
Woman in office with papers. Photo.
Watch video
In the project, we have worked to understand how, why and when challenges appear, mapping out all the layers of the system; from the direct interaction between families and service providers all the way up to legislation, financing models, organization of the services and the collaboration and coordination between sector at all levels. The whole spectrum of public administration and service delivery has been used as design material to solve this wicked problem.
The challenge
A need for seamless and tailored support
Families and their children with needs for complex services – often related to a combination of physical, psychological, and cognitive – experience significant difficulties receiving adequate support. Lack of coordination between sectors and public services providers results in families spending an average of 19 hours per week, coordinating the services. The project Alvorlig sykt barn (Severely ill child) aims to understand how and where problems occur and how they relate to each other, so we can find a way to offer families seamless, tailored, and reliable support across sectors.
Workshop in office. Photo.
“The public sector delivers some of the most important services in our lives. Many dedicated and skilled public servants work hard to help people, so it was with great humility that we approached this task.”
Sigrun Vik
Sigrun Vik
Head of Health & Welfare, Oslo
Workshop, ideas on a wall. Photo.
In the experimentation, we could take a step further – from the gigamaps to the real world to test a new way of collaboration across sectors and departments. This allowed us to test different interventions safely and quickly.
Hand with post-it. Photo.
Woman sitting at computer screen. Photo.
The outcome
Experimentation and visualisation to map the challenges
Innovation in the public sector is complex, with numerous stakeholders at all levels of decision-making. We approached the problem through 
Experimentation 
 to get past the initial threshold of fear of making mistakes. By designing and staging different scenarios, we used experimentation as a method to learn and gather new and deeper insights about the challenges. Staged scenarios offered a safe environment where we removed the real or imagined barriers of processes, protocols, and silos between departments. You can read more about the experiments here.
We summarized,visualized, and prioritised the existing challenges to make them clear and comprehensible. This, combined with the experimental approach of testing scenarios and solutions for collaboration, allowed us to identify no less than 45 concrete suggestions for projects that together can help create seamless and adequate support for the children and their families.
Infografikk med problemområder som må løses. Illustrasjon.
By mapping the extensive knowledge the directorates already possess on the existing problems and working co-creatively with real users, we could summarise, visualise and prioritise the challenges.
“A lot of it was about daring to start somewhere. To dare to do things differently. The experiments gave us new tools that we have started using – they work really well!”
Sophie Bouffard
Flekkefjord Municipality
Infografikk av tiltaksplan. Illustrasjon.
Delivered value
A clear overview and the possibility of tracking and measuring results
The overview will facilitate staying on track when working on individual projects and enables tracking and measuring results, and facilitates the prioritisation of interventions. It's crucial to work on several parallel 
Systemic Intervention 
 to keep the focus where it should be – on the families.
The Norwegian Directorate of Health has already started with the first of the 45 suggested interventions –"Rett på." This sub-project aims to make information about children's and young's rights more easily accessible. The Directorate of Health received 57 million NOK in June 2022 to improve access to information for families and their children and continue the effort within the life event.
Get in touch
Would you like to to know more about this?
Reach out to the team - we're happy to answer questions, receive feedback or discuss the topic.
Åshild Stav
Åshild Stav
Creative Leader Service Design , Oslo
Show phone number and
reveal email address
Marte Grevsgard
Marte Grevsgard
Creative Leader Service Design , Oslo
Show phone number and
reveal email address
Join our events, and stay updated on innovation and design.
Join our newsletter
newsletter image
KEEP EXPLORING
Services
Work
Events
About
People
Careers
SOCIAL
LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
OUR TEAM IS IN
Barcelona
Bergen
Madrid
Oslo
Trondheim
Stavanger
Stockholm
Valencia
Cookie settingsCookie policyPrivacy policy
© 2023 EGGS Design, part of Sopra Steria
